---
layout: post
title:  "Freshcode"
date:   2016-06-6 11:59:19

permalink: /blog/2016/06/29/post-9/

post-title: Are You Aware of these Hot Mobile Commerce Trends?
categories-tag: Front end
platform-tag: Apache
background: /img/blog-post/banner_post.jpg
background-color: '#56705c'
type: front

cover: /img/blog-post/post_9c-350.jpg
srcsetattr: "/img/blog-post/post_9c-700.jpg 700w, /img/blog-post/post_9c-450.jpg 450w, /img/blog-post/post_9c-350.jpg 350w"
sizeattr: "(min-width: 1500px) 700px, (max-width: 1499px) 450px, (max-width: 1000px) 350px, 700px"
background-cover: '#56705c'
avatar: blog-post/author.png
author: Andrey Petrov
position: Project manager

share-image: '/img/blog-post/banner_post.jpg'
share-description: 'The awesome shared post!'
share-title: 'Take care!'
---

<div class="post-body p-t-6rem">
            <p>The inclusion of jQuery libraries in the core of OpenCart makes Ajax implementation a breeze and more than a pleasant experience. In fact, you'll find several snippets spread across the whole framework that show the heavy use of jQuery, if you try to dig into the view files specifically.</p>

            <p>Throughout the course of this article, we'll build a custom page to demonstrate the use of Ajax in OpenCart. It'll be a simple interface that allows you to select a product from the drop-down box and displays a nice product summary block of the selected product. The interesting part of the use-case is the way the product summary block is built—it'll be prepared using Ajax on-the-fly. Of course, it's not something that makes it an out of the world example, but I guess it'll serve the basic purpose of showing how things work in OpenCart.</p>

            <p>I assume that you're using the latest version of OpenCart, which is 2.1.x.x! Also, the primary discussion of this article concentrates on Ajax with OpenCart, so I'll skid through the basics of custom module development in OpenCart. However, if you're not familiar with it, a quick explanation of the code snippets in between makes sure that you can follow till the end!</p>

            <h3>Create Module Files</h3>
            <p>Go ahead and create a file   <span class="path">catalog/controller/ajax/index.php</span>  with the following contents.</p>

            <pre>
    <code class="line-numbers language-php">&lt;?php
    // catalog/controller/ajax/index.php
    class ControllerAjaxIndex extends Controller {
      public function index() {
        $this->load->language('ajax/index');
                $this->load->model('catalog/product');

                $this->document->setTitle($this->language->get('heading_title'));</code></pre>

            <p>To start with, the <span class="path">index</span> method of the controller is used to load the language and model files and set up the common variables for the usual OpenCart template. We're loading the product model available in the core itself, so we don't have to duplicate the code to fetch the product information.</p>

        </div>